>> Steve Kinney: What we've seen today is,
we've got a real-time database that
is highly scalable, and a lot more,
in a lot of ways, more manageable
than the real-time database was.
The real-time database is great, I've done
a lot of really cool stuff with that.
But Cloud Firestore
definitely solves a lot,
you had to be very nuanced
with the real-time database.
With Cloud Firestore,
you're able to kind of structure stuff,
in kind of the way you would
think about your application, and
build documents that start from a UI,
backwards.
I think a lot of us,
as front-end engineers, have gotten APIs.
I like to joke at work that I can take any
blueprint that the back-end team makes,
and build anything off of that.
I can take any designs that the UI/UX team
makes, and build anything based on that.
But sometimes, when both of those
documents cross my desk at the same time,
I can't do anything, right, and
that's where it becomes difficult.
And so I think being able to kind
of think about, first of all,
the amount of apps that you could
build now, that you probably wouldn't.
And this is the kind of thing we were
talking about the other day, as well.
But there's a lot of times when I'm like,
I wanna build this app, and I sit down,
I'm really excited.
And then I remember I have to
implement authentication, and
then all of the joy leaves my body,
and I do literally anything else.
Now, I flip a switch,
I've got some authentication.
I think the number of apps
that you can build and
scale now, cuz this is on
Google's infrastructure, right?
Effectively, should you design and
architect your system well,
there's no reason that you
couldn't scale this pretty well.
You've got file storage, you've got
a database, you've got authentication,
we've got the ability to run
back-end functions, right?
I think Firebase, for me,
is one of the more exciting platforms
to build just web services on.
And I've had a lot of fun with it, and
I plan on having a lot more
fun with it in the future.
Any large questions that I can answer,
for all you?
>> Speaker 1: I mean,
we're all excited, we're all, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Whoo!
>> Speaker 1: Whoo!
When is it bad, when did you,
or someone you knew about,
regret having gone in
the Firebase direction?
>> Steve Kinney: I mean,
it's one of those things,
you do need to,
with any cloud service, right?
Here's the thing,
the chances of it going down,
cuz you messed up, is relatively low.
Your bad architecture decisions are not
gonna take your application down,
they're gonna take your bank account down,
[LAUGH], right?
And yes, that is a happy problem to have,
which is, it's gotten so popular!
And you can set in, both budget alerts and
then also pull-the cord-alerts.
But in a lot of cases, it might be slow,
it might be expensive, but
it will scale, and sometimes that
can be a problem, [LAUGH], right?
Having a back-end that you can pull
off the shelf does not, in fact,
it puts even more onus on you,
the front-end engineer,
in this case, to make good
architecture decisions, right?
We saw with that provider pattern before,
that it basically allows us
to get the same data in multiple
places on our application.
If we just did that with setState,
we would have to do it in all
different components, right?
Or if we just decide,
I'm gonna count all the comments, right,
that can get out of control,
now, not only on cost, right?
But also on the fact of,
for a mobile device, right,
that is a lot of data that you
are sending to that device.
And that data comes at the cost of,
yeah, maybe data plans, but
most importantly, battery, right?
Which is a great way to get your
application in a state I like to call
uninstalled, right, and not used, right?
So a lot of that performance
stuff matters, cuz yeah,
we all have fancy phones and
stuff like that.
But all that stuff which was partially
a shared responsibility between
the back-end engineers in your team and
the front-end engineers on your
team is now totally on you, right?
And a lot of it is a very
different set of problems.
I like to joke that every back-end
engineer thinks that they know front-end
because they wrote jQuery form
validation one time in 2007.
And every front-end engineer thinks
they know about scalability,
cuz they did a join,
[LAUGH], in 2011, right?
But a lot of this stuff is
brand-new to us, right?
A lot of it is the learning curve of,
how do you structure into a SQL database,
is an art, in of itself, that I think for
a lot us, we don't necessarily have
that muscle totally trained, right?
It is very different, in a lot of ways,
structuring into a SQL database is almost
counterintuitive to everything you think
about structuring a SQL database, right?
Put your data in multiple places is not
a thing you do in a SQL database, right?
The idea is that you would de-normalize
data instead of normalizing it, right,
is a totally different thing.
So you can make very bad choices,
cuz I think for a lot of us,
we are, by default,
predisposed to doing it.
Because, yeah, for a MySQL database or
something like that, Postgres,
what are good choices there
are bad choices, right?
So it is totally on you to
make those choices now.
On one hand, yeah,
you don't have to do as much of the,
I never wanna set up a VPS again,
personally.
I've done it, I don't like it,
I don't ever wanna do it again, right?
And the idea that I don't
have to do it is great, but
it also means that this totally kind of
different thing is on me to understand.
And like I said, I think it's still
early days, so much of the things that
we think are common knowledge in SQL
are not, it's just muscle memory for us.
So yeah, you can make poor choices,
it'll either be expensive choices or
just bad user experiences.
Insofar the amount of data you're
sending over the wire, and
stuff along those lines.
And for a lot of the code that we write,
we don't get great logs all the time,
right, cuz it's running on
somebody else's device, right?
We can do emulators and
stuff like that, but it's not like,
I just looked at this data center, and
it's at 99% CPU, or something like that.
No, just somebody thought, man,
this stinks, and took it off their phone,
you don't know why, so,
>> Steve Kinney: The other thing is,
too, it's like,
there is a little bit of vendor lock-in.
>> Speaker 2: That was my first thing,
yeah-
>> Steve Kinney: Right-
>> Speaker 2: I'm wondering,
how could you make it so
it's not so, I mean,
it's hard to make it not locked-in, is it?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I mean, good
abstractions, right, the idea that we have
provider components that are just handing
stuff in, rather than writing collection
and dock everywhere will go a long way for
you, right?
So that if you can find the one or
two provider components or whatever,
thunks in Redux, or
whatever you're doing, right?
And figure it out, giving instruction that
most of your application doesn't really
care, and I mean,
that's true in a back-end thing.
Where I work right now,
we are rewriting a front-end app,
cuz it was so
deeply tied to the Rails app,
as we move totally to, for us, AWS, right?
That you couldn't remove the front-end
application from the Rails application
without significant, it would basically
fall out from underneath, right?
And so you can get yourself locked into
open-source tools, [LAUGH], right?
You can get locked, with bad abstractions,
you can lock yourself into any back-end,
right, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Well,
except that the provider's one provider,
so there's no hosting, you can find MySQL,
whatever, you can find hosting, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly, yeah, so
there is a little a bit of that.
And there are things like, AWS has
Amplify, and stuff along those lines,
which is at least built
under DynamoDB databases.
That if you decide you don't
like that abstraction,
you can just use the Dynamo databases,
right, and stuff like that.
And I think it's getting less so,
Firebase was a lot more of
a black box two years ago.
I think, at that point,
it was totally like closed-source,
I think a lot more of it is open now.
And as it moves, Google acquired it,
I wanna say two years ago, maybe three.
And it's moving on to more of a kind of
standard Google infrastructure, as well.
I think Cloud Firestore is
somwhat based on Cloud Datastore,
which is just a GCP database, as well.
So it is less true, with Firestore,
less true than it was with
the real-time database, but yeah,
that's the thing too, right?
But like I said,
I'm tied to a Rails app right now, so,
[LAUGH], anything's possible with
the wrong abstractions, [LAUGH], yeah.
Cool, thank you so much for
coming and joining me today.
>> Speaker 1: [APPLAUSE]